Blog post #1:

10/6:

4 design tips


Having a hard time designing your home? Here are 4 tips that should help!

Balance:

There are three styles of balance: symmetrical, which is found in many traditional interiors. Its symmetry is easy on the eyes, creating an aesthetically visual effect that mirrors each side of the room equally. Asymmetrical balance is less rigid and structured in nature, giving home decor a more casual and comfortable vibe. Another type of balance is radial symmetry, which brings all the elements of a design into a central focal point. Although not often used in interior design, radial symmetry can add an interesting look that anchors the rest of the room, such as a spiral staircase.

Color:
Color is perhaps the biggest component to interior design. Vibrant colors can translate to harshness . Other colors can be dull and boring. In interior design, the effects of colors are expressed in three basic ways: active, passive, and neutral.

Flat and Matte paints are also excellent options for creating a clean, modern and relaxed finish. Be sure to use a semi gloss on moldings and trims though! This will really enhance the color and make it pop!



Harmony:

Have you ever walked into a room and it takes your breath away? You felt a certain ease and calmness. That’s because the home owners used a powerful tool in design- harmony. Using a common characteristic can relate different elements in the room. For example, five different chairs, but all painted the same color?  This helps bring in a sense of harmony. 
Focal Points 
A boring and uninspired space is one of the biggest challenges for interior designers. An easy way to create a lasting impression is by bringing the attention towards a focal point that draws in the eye. When choosing what elements to emphasize in a design, you should look for a statement piece that takes center stage in a space. A common focal point for living rooms, for example, is a fireplace, couch or credenza. This can be further emphasized with accents in bold colors or patterns. This basic interior design principle applies to other rooms in the house, including the bedroom, bathrooms, and other areas.
(beautiful room, poor focal point) 

I hope you find these helpful! Stay tuned for future design tips!

-Malki 

Aaronmalki.com
